## Express TypeScript Boilerplate

This is a backend only boilerplate. It comes with the file and folder structure configured, as well with TypeScript, ESLint, Prettier and other tools. It also comes with TypeORM and Knex configured, altough I choosed not to configure the Knex CLI and manage migrations only with TypeORM. It also already comes with the CORS configured to allow requests from any host.

The only database driver added is the Postgres one. If you need to use another database, like MySQL, SQLite... just install the required driver and change the envirnoment variable `SQL_DIALECT` on the .env file to match the correct database.

#### Installation

`https://github.com/victorcrbt/typescript-express-boileplate.git`

1. `cd typescript-express-boilerplate`
2. `yarn` or `npm install`
3. \*\* Duplicate the `.env.example` file and rename it to `.env`
4. Fill the `.env` file with the required info

\*\* To run the app without using the database you don't need to create the `.env` file. The app then will run on port `3333`

#### Running the app

##### Development

You can run the development server with `yarn dev` or `npm run dev`.

##### Build

You can build the app to common JS files with `yarn build` or `npm run build`. It will then generate a `build` folder with the files transpiled to JavaScript.

##### Migrations

Since the migrations generated by TypeORM comes in TypeScript format, and the migration runner cannot read these files, they need to be transpiled to JavaScript before running the migrations. There are two scripts to run the migrations that will transpile the files to JavaScript then run the migrations using `ts-node`.

- run: `yarn migration:run` or `npm run migration:run`
- revert: `yarn migration:revert` or `npm run migration:revert`

#### Path aliases

This boilerplate comes with 3 path aliases, that works with the dev server and the builded project. They are meant to make imports easier (mainly the models and controllers imports) by avoiding the `../../../` hell. The 3 pre configured aliases are:

- `app/` - It will access `/src/app/`
- `models/` - It will access `/src/app/models/`
- `controllers/` - It will access `/src/app/controllers/`

If you need more aliases, it's pretty easy to setup them. Just edit the `tsconfig.json` file and add the aliases on the `paths` property following the patttern of the other aliases.

### Tools and Technologies

#### Dependencies

- Express
- CORS
- Dotenv
- Knex
- TypeORM
- Postgres Driver

#### Dev dependencies

- TypeScript
- ESLint
  - There are several ESLint plugins installed.
- Prettier
- ts-node (build the migrations)
- ts-node-dev (run the dev server)
- ttypescript (build the file with the path transforms)

### To be added

- Tests structure
